doc/update/6.0-to-7.0.md, before:

# From 6.0 to 7.0

## Deprecations

## Global issue numbers

As of 6.1 issue numbers are project specific. This means all issues are renumbered and get a new number in their URL. If you use an old issue number URL and the issue number does not exist yet you are redirected to the new one. This conversion does not trigger if the old number already exists for this project, this is unlikely but will happen with old issues and large projects.

## 0. Backup

It's useful to make a backup just in case things go south:
(With MySQL, this may require granting "LOCK TABLES" privileges to the GitLab user on the database version)

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab
sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake gitlab:backup:create RAILS_ENV=production
```

## 1. Stop server

    sudo service gitlab stop

## 2. Get latest code

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab
sudo -u git -H git fetch --all
```

For GitLab Community Edition:

```bash
sudo -u git -H git checkout 7-0-stable
```

OR

For GitLab Enterprise Edition:

```bash
sudo -u git -H git checkout 7-0-stable-ee
```


## 3. Install additional packages

```bash
# Add support for lograte for better log file handling
sudo apt-get install logrotate
```

## 4. Update gitlab-shell

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab-shell
sudo -u git -H git fetch
sudo -u git -H git checkout v1.9.3 # Addresses multiple critical security vulnerabilities
```

## 5. Install libs, migrations, etc.

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab

# MySQL installations (note: the line below states '--without ... postgres')
sudo -u git -H bundle install --without development test postgres --deployment

# PostgreSQL installations (note: the line below states '--without ... mysql')
sudo -u git -H bundle install --without development test mysql --deployment


# Run database migrations
sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake db:migrate RAILS_ENV=production

# Enable internal issue IDs (introduced in GitLab 6.1)
sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake migrate_iids RAILS_ENV=production

# Clean up assets and cache
sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake assets:clean assets:precompile cache:clear RAILS_ENV=production

# Close access to gitlab-satellites for others
sudo chmod u+rwx,g+rx,o-rwx /home/git/gitlab-satellites
```

## 6. Update config files

TIP: to see what changed in gitlab.yml.example in this release use next command: 

```
git diff 6-0-stable:config/gitlab.yml.example 7-0-stable:config/gitlab.yml.example
```

* Make `/home/git/gitlab/config/gitlab.yml` the same as https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/blob/7-0-stable/config/gitlab.yml.example but with your settings.
* Make `/home/git/gitlab/config/unicorn.rb` the same as https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/blob/7-0-stable/config/unicorn.rb.example but with your settings.
* Make `/etc/nginx/sites-available/nginx` the same as https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/blob/7-0-stable/lib/support/nginx/gitlab but with your settings.
* Copy rack attack middleware config

```bash
sudo -u git -H cp config/initializers/rack_attack.rb.example config/initializers/rack_attack.rb
```

* Set up logrotate

```bash
sudo cp lib/support/logrotate/gitlab /etc/logrotate.d/gitlab
```

## 7. Update Init script

```bash
sudo cp lib/support/init.d/gitlab /etc/init.d/gitlab
```

## 8. Start application

    sudo service gitlab start
    sudo service nginx restart

## 9. Check application status

Check if GitLab and its environment are configured correctly:

    cd /home/git/gitlab
    sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake gitlab:env:info RAILS_ENV=production

To make sure you didn't miss anything run a more thorough check with:

    sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake gitlab:check RAILS_ENV=production

If all items are green, then congratulations upgrade complete!

## Things went south? Revert to previous version (6.0)

### 1. Revert the code to the previous version

Follow the [`upgrade guide from 5.4 to 6.0`](5.4-to-6.0.md), except for the database migration (the backup is already migrated to the previous version).

### 2. Restore from the backup:

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab
sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake gitlab:backup:restore RAILS_ENV=production
```

## Login issues after upgrade?

If running in HTTPS mode, be sure to read [Can't Verify CSRF token authenticity](https://github.com/gitlabhq/gitlab-public-wiki/wiki/Trouble-Shooting-Guide#cant-verify-csrf-token-authenticitycant-get-past-login-pageredirected-to-login-page)

Commit message:

The Wall is deprecated in 7.0

doc/update/6.0-to-7.0.md, after:

# From 6.0 to 7.0

## Deprecations

The 'Wall' feature has been removed in GitLab 7.0. Existing wall comments will remain stored in the database after the upgrade.

## Global issue numbers

As of 6.1 issue numbers are project specific. This means all issues are renumbered and get a new number in their URL. If you use an old issue number URL and the issue number does not exist yet you are redirected to the new one. This conversion does not trigger if the old number already exists for this project, this is unlikely but will happen with old issues and large projects.

## 0. Backup

It's useful to make a backup just in case things go south:
(With MySQL, this may require granting "LOCK TABLES" privileges to the GitLab user on the database version)

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab
sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake gitlab:backup:create RAILS_ENV=production
```

## 1. Stop server

    sudo service gitlab stop

## 2. Get latest code

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab
sudo -u git -H git fetch --all
```

For GitLab Community Edition:

```bash
sudo -u git -H git checkout 7-0-stable
```

OR

For GitLab Enterprise Edition:

```bash
sudo -u git -H git checkout 7-0-stable-ee
```


## 3. Install additional packages

```bash
# Add support for lograte for better log file handling
sudo apt-get install logrotate
```

## 4. Update gitlab-shell

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab-shell
sudo -u git -H git fetch
sudo -u git -H git checkout v1.9.3 # Addresses multiple critical security vulnerabilities
```

## 5. Install libs, migrations, etc.

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab

# MySQL installations (note: the line below states '--without ... postgres')
sudo -u git -H bundle install --without development test postgres --deployment

# PostgreSQL installations (note: the line below states '--without ... mysql')
sudo -u git -H bundle install --without development test mysql --deployment


# Run database migrations
sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake db:migrate RAILS_ENV=production

# Enable internal issue IDs (introduced in GitLab 6.1)
sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake migrate_iids RAILS_ENV=production

# Clean up assets and cache
sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake assets:clean assets:precompile cache:clear RAILS_ENV=production

# Close access to gitlab-satellites for others
sudo chmod u+rwx,g+rx,o-rwx /home/git/gitlab-satellites
```

## 6. Update config files

TIP: to see what changed in gitlab.yml.example in this release use next command: 

```
git diff 6-0-stable:config/gitlab.yml.example 7-0-stable:config/gitlab.yml.example
```

* Make `/home/git/gitlab/config/gitlab.yml` the same as https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/blob/7-0-stable/config/gitlab.yml.example but with your settings.
* Make `/home/git/gitlab/config/unicorn.rb` the same as https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/blob/7-0-stable/config/unicorn.rb.example but with your settings.
* Make `/etc/nginx/sites-available/nginx` the same as https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/blob/7-0-stable/lib/support/nginx/gitlab but with your settings.
* Copy rack attack middleware config

```bash
sudo -u git -H cp config/initializers/rack_attack.rb.example config/initializers/rack_attack.rb
```

* Set up logrotate

```bash
sudo cp lib/support/logrotate/gitlab /etc/logrotate.d/gitlab
```

## 7. Update Init script

```bash
sudo cp lib/support/init.d/gitlab /etc/init.d/gitlab
```

## 8. Start application

    sudo service gitlab start
    sudo service nginx restart

## 9. Check application status

Check if GitLab and its environment are configured correctly:

    cd /home/git/gitlab
    sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake gitlab:env:info RAILS_ENV=production

To make sure you didn't miss anything run a more thorough check with:

    sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake gitlab:check RAILS_ENV=production

If all items are green, then congratulations upgrade complete!

## Things went south? Revert to previous version (6.0)

### 1. Revert the code to the previous version

Follow the [`upgrade guide from 5.4 to 6.0`](5.4-to-6.0.md), except for the database migration (the backup is already migrated to the previous version).

### 2. Restore from the backup:

```bash
cd /home/git/gitlab
sudo -u git -H bundle exec rake gitlab:backup:restore RAILS_ENV=production
```

## Login issues after upgrade?

If running in HTTPS mode, be sure to read [Can't Verify CSRF token authenticity](https://github.com/gitlabhq/gitlab-public-wiki/wiki/Trouble-Shooting-Guide#cant-verify-csrf-token-authenticitycant-get-past-login-pageredirected-to-login-page)
